<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 - 2025 Nikita Chernyi
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Samuel Meenzen
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Slavi Pantaleev
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Suguru Hirahara

SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# MSC1929 — Homeserver Admin Contact and Support Page

Along with creating indexes and providing a human-friendly interface for vast Matrix Federation, Matrix Rooms Search integrates [MSC1929](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/1929) natively, in order to help homeserver administrators to combat unlawful actions like sharing illegal material on their server.

By integrating MSC1929, MRS enables the homeserver administrators (and/or room administrators) to be notified in case a room on the homeserver was reported via the UI.

## Technical description

MRS supports [`/.well-known/matrix/support`](https://spec.matrix.org/latest/client-server-api/#getwell-knownmatrixsupport) endpoint, thanks to [github.com/etkecc/go-msc1929](https://github.com/etkecc/go-msc1929) library integration.

MRS parses MSC1929 contacts automatically during the discovery phase and store them into database. When a room is reported with the `/mod/report/{room_id}` endpoint, MRS will check whether the room's server has MSC1929 contact details. If email address(-es) are found, the report will be sent to the address to notify its homeserver's administrator.

MRS recognizes contact details of not only homeserver administrators on the `/.well-known/matrix/support` file but also **room** administrators on the room's description. You can check [this section below](#add-contact-details-to-the-room-description) for details.

### Email address priority

At first, MRS tries to find moderator email addresses. If none was found, it then tries to find administrator's email address (whose `role` is `m.role.admin`) on the MSC1929 file. If neither of them was found, it will at last try to find any other addresses in the file.

## How to opt-in

There are two ways to make the contact details discoverable.

### Add contact details to `/.well-known/matrix/support` file

You can add `/.well-known/matrix/support` file with the following structure:

```json
{
  "contacts": [
    {
      "email_address": "your@email.here",
      "matrix_id": "@your:mxid.here",
      "role": "m.role.admin"
    }
  ]
}
```

File must be served on the homeserver name domain (`@you:example.com` -> `https://example.com/.well-known/matrix/support`)

**Notes**:

- The file must be served on the homeserver name domain. If your MXID is `@you:example.com`, the file needs to be hosted at `https://example.com/.well-known/matrix/support`.
- At this moment, **MRS recognizes email addresses on the file only**.

#### Add the file with "matrix-docker-ansible-deploy" Ansible playbook

If you use [etke.cc/ansible](https://github.com/etkecc/ansible) and [matrix-docker-ansible-deploy](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy) to manage your Matrix homeserver, you can create the file by adding the following to your `vars.yml` configuration file and running the playbook:

```yaml
matrix_static_files_file_matrix_support_enabled: true
matrix_static_files_file_matrix_support_property_m_contacts:
  - matrix_id: "@you:example.com" # optional, remove if not needed
    email_address: "you@example.com" # required for MRS MSC1929 integration
    role: "m.role.admin"
matrix_homeserver_support_url: "https://example.com/help" # optional, remove if not needed
```

### Add contact details to the room description

If you are not homeserver's administrator but a room's administrator/moderator, you can still indicate that you want to be contacted in case the room is reported by adding special string to the room description as below. The string will be recognized alongside the MSC1929 contacts (if any).

```
<matrix.server_name from MRS config.yml>:email:<your@email.address>
```

Here is an example:

```
example.com:email:admin@example.com
```

💡 **Hint**: the recommended place to add it is the end of the room topic, as MRS removes it from the room's topic when processing it and displaying the topic on the UI. This is technical information and not used for searching the room.

## How to opt-out

You can opt-out by simply removing your email address from the MSC1929 file and/or the string from the room description.

## FAQ

### Why MRS doesn't notify me when a room is reported?

Because the `/.well-known/matrix/support` file does not include an email address or the room description does not contain the string for specifying contact details.

Please make sure that the file is served properly and includes more than one email address, and the contact detail on the room description is correct if it is specified there.

### How to check if the MSC1929 file is valid?

You can use the `POST /discover/msc1929/{server_name}` endpoint which MRS provides in order to check if the MSC1929 file is valid.

It will return `204 No Content` if the file is valid, or `400 Bad Request` if the file is invalid.

Here are possible error codes:

- `CC.ETKE.MSC1929_ERROR` — something is entirely wrong, request to the MSC1929 file failed
- `CC.ETKE.MSC1929_EMPTY` — the MSC1929 file is missing or empty (i.e., does not contain any actual data)
- `CC.ETKE.MSC1929_OUTDATED` — the MSC1929 file uses old format (i.e., `admins` instead of `contacts` key)
- `CC.ETKE.MSC1929_NO_MXIDS` — the MSC1929 file does not contain any Matrix IDs (i.e., `matrix_id` key inside `contacts` is missing)
- `CC.ETKE.MSC1929_NO_EMAILS` — the MSC1929 file does not contain any emails (i.e., `email_address` key inside `contacts` is missing)
- `CC.ETKE.MSC1929_MISSING_ROLE` — the MSC1929 file contains a contact without a role (i.e., `role` key inside `contacts` is missing)
- `CC.ETKE.MSC1929_UNSUPPORTED_ROLE` — the MSC1929 file contains a contact with an unsupported role (i.e., `role` key inside `contacts` is not one of the supported roles)
